All right.
So in this module we're going to explore the fundamental parts that make up a successful campaign.
So first thing about the campaign the idea how you can make it unengaging how you can create it easily
and how you can make it sell your product.
And then we're going to touch upon the other aspects of the campaign.
So how to create the images in your campaign.
How do you determine the reward.
Here's how to write the actual copy of your sales page in your campaign.
A whole bunch of things basically.
But first we will talk about the video.
Now the video is one of the most important parts of your campaign and that's why we're going to talk
about it first before you lose your attention span and you not off.
This is something that's really really important.
And hear me out.
So you may or may not have seen our campaign video.
It is probably one of the most embarrassing things I've ever done in my whole life.
It's just so so so so.
Yes so that's all I'm going to show you guys.
If you're really motivated I'm sure you'll be able to find it on the internet somewhere.
But here's the thing though.
Projects with videos succeed at a much higher rate and this is according to Kickstarter itself.
And they've shown that in their data that those that have a video have a 50 percent chance of succeeding
and those without have only about 30 percent.
Now that might be because creating a video is actually quite a lot of work.
So those without a video are probably the campaigns that couldn't really put in the effort.
So let's focus on the things that are important about making the campaign video.
There's a really great quote that's attributed to T.S. Eliot.
I'm not sure if this is true or not but the sentiment is definitely true.
I would have written a shorter letter but I've not have the time it always no matter if it's writing
no matter if it's videos.
It always takes a lot more effort to cut it down than to actually just you know put in a whole lot of
a stream of consciousness.
So currently the average Videoland for a successful Kickstarter project is around three minutes 38 seconds.
So that's not a lot of time and that's because in this day and age where you know we have fast food
fast cars people have very very short attention spans and it's very hard to capture people's attention
for long periods of time.
So aim to cut your video down to around the three minute mark.
That way people will have to see your main selling points without being bored or without wanting to
switch channel.
So one of the first things that you should be doing when you're researching for your video is to watch
a lot of Kickstarter videos and have a notepad while you're doing it and ask yourself what makes this
video engaging.
What makes it memorable.
So if you just search for everything in the Kickstarter catalog and then sort everything by most funded
and start watching video after video answering these questions you're going to start to get a good grasp
of what is a good format for your own video.
Now once you've done that once you know roughly what you're going to put in your video create a storyboard.
So this is the storyboard for Toy Story.
It essentially sets out every single scene that you're going to shoot later on and you're going to describe
the rough gist of what's going to happen in each scene.
So don't worry if you can't draw I can't draw either.
Not many people are blessed with that skill.
It doesn't really matter what it looks like.
It can be stickman it can be you know rough shapes or you can just be text even if you need a good way
of laying out in your mind what each scene is going to look like in a video so that you can plan shooting
it later on.
Now of course I'm talking to you about bootstrap ways of creating your own video.
But even if you have a videographer onboard it will make their lives and therefore your lives much much
easier if you just know exactly what it is that you want.
So in your big download pack there should be a blank storyboard template where you can list out the
scenes and draw out what's roughly can happen in each one of them.
So if you look at a movie and every time that there's a cut that means that's a new scene and the next
time you go and see a blockbuster movie especially an action movie.
Just count the number of seconds before they cut the scene.
And what's really interesting is that if you look at historical data the length of each cut is reducing
dramatically year on year.
And that's a reflection again of how short our attention spans.
So if you want your Kickstarter video to be very punchy to engage people then try to have as many scenes
as you can afford to shoot.
So the more scenes there are the more cuts there are the more movement that that movie has the more
likely it is that people will engage and continue watching your video.
So when you're creating a video there's a number of questions that you really need to answer.
And I'm going to use a really good video produced by the guys of the Dollar Shave Club to illustrate
some of these points.
Why are you creating your product.
Why does it need to exist.
And do you like spending $20 a month on brand name razors Nightengale to Roger Federer and tennis and
do you think your razor needs a vibrating handle a flashlight a backscratcher and ten blades your head
some ass grandfather had one blade and polio.
So I say stop with the why.
Why is it important that your project exists.
Why is it that you're telling people about it.
Why are you creating this campaign.
But the next thing is that.
Who are you.
And also why are you qualified to create this product.
Why should you be the one who's going to address this problem.
Hi I'm Mike founder of Dollar Shave Club dotcom.
What is Dollar Shave Club dotcom.
Well for a dollar a month we sent high quality razors right to your door.
And finally it's the how.
How are you going to address the problem.
How are you going to provide a solution.
How does your solution work.
STOP PAYING FOR SAVE take.
You don't need and start forgetting to buy your blades every month.
All 100 are going to ship him right to.
And finally what exactly will people get.
What are they going to get for pledging in your product.
And this might be addressed in the video or it might be addressed in the description.
It doesn't really matter where you put it.
As long as you show people clearly what their pledge is going to get them because at the end of day
everybody is selfish.
There are a lot of people who are pledging for charitable causes.
But even then people are getting the feel good factor.
Right.
So tell them show them what they're going to get.
And that brings us to a really important point.
As with everything in sales show don't tell.
Now I can tell you that my product is a vacuum head trauma but it won't be as effective as just showing
you a quick demo of how it works.
Now once you've got all your ideas down and you've got your storyboard completed it's time to write
a script.
So taking those scenes one by one and then writing down exactly what's happening or maybe what are the
important things that's happening on screen or maybe what some of the dialogue might be if that's what
you're going to have in your video.
And we've also included a script from the coolest cooler video.
So in your research for Kickstarter videos for any sort of crowdfunding campaign videos this is definitely
a go to Case study because it is just done so well it's done a little bit like an infomercial but it
seems like the infomercial format works really really well not just for QVC but also for Kickstarter.
So we've included the script for the coolest Coola and alongside.
In the next column we've also got Why eight each of the scenes work and try to think if you can incorporate
some of those elements into your own videos.
And the other thing to remember is that Kickstarter backers come from all over the world not just English
speaking countries.
So it's a really good idea to have subtitles in your video.
And if you create is a word for word script it's not going to be wasted because you're going to be putting
that in as subtitles anyways so you can translate it for people from different countries but also so
that people can watch your videos on silent.
Now for a video like ours it's really not much fun to watch it in silence.
But if you haven't seen Facebook videos you'll see that every single one of them has subtitles because
people usually on the tube or they're in the elevator or they're in the office bathroom procrastinating.
It's really really a good idea to have subtitles do your videos.
It gives that much higher reach and people won't just close it when they realize it has sound shocking
for a video.
So the thing is when you're writing a script and you're crunching your storyboard it's very very easy
to get to a point where you want to include loads and loads of things and you're definitely going to
exceed that 3.3 minute mark.
So think about what are you going to include in your video as a sort of reverse pyramid and put the
things that are most important at the top and then the things that are less important and the things
that are least important and make sure that you get your most important points across and the rest of
it.
If it doesn't make the mark if it's going on too long then you can always put it in the description
as text for people to read if they want more detail.
The video is for high impact.
It's to capture people.
It's to get people to go and read what your project is all about.
So try and just have the most important things included in it and not everything that you can imagine.
So if you've ever uploaded a YouTube video you'll know that for every single video Yuichi provides stats
of where people drop off during the video and it's usually quite shocking especially when you thought
about how much effort you've gone to produce each of these videos.
But people's attention spans as I mention is low and you can see that usually after the one minute mark
most people will drop off and there's a sharp decline when most people drop off.
So it's important to put your most important messages at the beginning in the first minute of your video.
And for those people who have slightly more patience like two minutes more patients than they can see
the rest of the video.
But if they watched the first minute and they didn't really get to the meat of your sales pitch then
that's a shame because they would have dropped off.
They wouldn't even know how awesome your project is.
So in terms of video production tips I have a few.
If you're producing a videos yourself you might need footage that you might not have shot so things
like landscape shots things that basically illustrate a mood.
So you can go to upon five where you can find paid footage or you can go to pics or they can find free
footage.
Now it really depends on your budget.
So have a look at both and see if there's things that you need.
But in most cases you're going to need to produce a lot of the content yourself.
So let's talk a little bit about the camera setup.
If you don't have a video onboard if you have a video of who's going to take care of all of us then
you can just skip ahead and go to the next lesson so camera phones are getting increasingly powerful
nowadays.
And in fact there was actually a Kickstarter which was successfully funded where the the creators were
going to make a home movie shot entirely on the iPhone.
So this is a testament to the power of the camera phone even if you don't have a nice camera.
Even if you don't have a DSL it doesn't matter.
Shoot it with your iPhone.
Don't be afraid of creating the video yourself in the process you're going to learn a lot about video
editing or color grading and how much of skills that you wouldn't have had if you didn't decide to go
down this route.
Now the next thing that is equally if not more important is the microphone.
The microphone is so important to any video almost more important than the camera.
So this is a condenser microphone.
I'm talking to you right now.
You can hear the sounds are quite smooth.
It picks up a lot of the sounds I'm making without picking up a lot of the environment.
Now this is picked up by my laptop and I can hear the difference because it's pretty dramatic.
So get a good microphone.
They don't cost a lot.
I'm going to tell you some places.
So there's a great Web site called my previews where you can find reviews of all the microphones and
you can search for something that's maybe around the $50 mark or $40 Mark.
And you can still get a mix of good quality and also in the text page you're going to see my recommendations
for your mike setup and some of the gear that we used.
Next is lighting lighting is super important.
In most cases when you look at color photos on magazines it's all about the lighting.
People don't actually look as beautiful as they are.
But if you have like hitting the right parts of your face you will look a lot better.
So this is a rough guide from Wisteria on how you can light your subjects.
So usually you have a backlight towards the wall and that provides good separation between the subject
and the background and then you have two lights hitting the person at almost a right angle usually a
little bit narrower than that but that gives a good amount of lighting to the face.
So if you want to read this in more detail have attached a link to that in the text as well.
So in terms of video editing software we used free tools exclusively actually to edit our video.
We used movie which is a free software that comes with any Mac or if you're a Windows user you can also
use moviemaker.
And they're both pretty user friendly.
And I would say it doesn't take all that long to get up and running and start editing your videos.
Now the first thing you need to do is what's called a string out.
This is where you put all of the clips that you've amassed onto your editing timeline and then you basically
just watch them watch it in its entirety and then you're going to see which of the clips that you want
to keep and which are the ones you're going to discard and then you're going to start thinking about
editing it down in more detail picking out the shots that you like and stringing them together in the
right order.
Now what about music.
Music can help your video especially when you're doing the product demos or when you're trying to show
people something where there's nobody talking.
Having some music in the background can help the pacing of the video.
So we've linked to Westies music collection which is a bunch of free commercial use video soundtracks
that you can add to your video and describe what kinds of moods that it fits.
So have a look at that.
If you want to add video to your project.
And finally and probably one of the most important things is the thumbnail.
Now you've all heard of click bait where you see articles written something like the top five things
that you wouldn't believe or something like that right.
That basically the BuzzFeed titles but your thumbnail also has to be kind of click bait.
You want people to hit that play button and give your project a chance.
So if you have a look on YouTube and you look at some of the biggest YouTube as thumbnails you'll see
that they all feature human faces and that's because as humans we like looking at other human faces.
It gives us a lot of information and very very quickly.
So you want to include your face or somebody's face at least in your project video thumbnail.
The other thing is what's called the Action face.
So if you have a look at the top page games on the App Store so iOS or Android you'll see that they're
dominated by these types of app icons.
And again it's all about click baiting it's all about making people click on it to check out what the
game is all about.
And the action faces the sort of raw face where somebody is looking into the distance and making an
emotional face where it looks like they are either angry or they're enthused.
I'm not quite sure what that expression is but it seems to captivate people enough to download and so
it would probably help you in your thumbnail too.
Now the other thing that you might want to think about is having the thumbnail convey that there's something
exciting going on or that there's something silly that's about to happen like ours or create an air
of mystery oh what's going to happen next.
What are they doing.
What is the video all about.
Makes people want to find out basically.
Now we've spoken a lot about what to do.
Well let's talk briefly about what not to do.
So this is a really famous case study for Kickstarter campaigns in terms of what not to do.
And there's a number of things here that I would say the creators could have really improved on and
we're going to talk about it one by one.
So firstly as we spoke about thumbnails just now have a look at this thumbnail.
Yes it has the human face check but the human face isn't really showing me very much.
I don't know what that thumbnails trying to tell me.
Doesn't seem to have any relation with the project itself.
The other thing is that the thumbnails not taking up all of the space that it could do almost a square
whereas it could take up the entire rectangle and you don't want to have black strips on the most important
part of your page which is the landing page rank.
So have a look on Kickstarter on some of the most successfully funded ones and compare them against
the ones that failed and see what is the difference in terms of the videos in terms of the thumbnails
in terms of the lighting and all the things that we spoke about in this module.
So the other thing to remember is that even successful directors don't always get this right.
So Spike Lee created the Kickstarter a while back to fund a independent movie and the tone and everything
was just slightly off.
Now you can read this article on Slate yourself but you went back actually took crowdfunding veterans
advice and actually changed the campaign to make it better.
But it's a good case study in terms of you know just because you're famous doesn't mean that you're
a natural when it comes to crowdfunding videos and it's really really important to say here that please
don't put up a vertical video of vertical videos are usually taken on a mobile phone where the default
status is holding it in portrait mode and that creates a vertical video.
Right.
But on Kickstarter and on all crowdfunding Web sites the default format is landscape.
So that means that your video is going to be shrunk to you know almost half the size and people are
not going we have to see what's going on.
And this usually looks like it's a really really poor effort.
So even if you're using an iPhone just tilted to landscape when you're recorded it's really really important.